Updated actions.md for Redux Interactions (#885)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/extend/plugins/webapp/actions.md

* [actions](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/actions) - Actions perform API requests and can change the state of Mattermost.
* [client](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/client) - The client package can be used to instantiate a Client4 object, to interact with the Mattermost API directly. This is useful in plugins as well as JavaScript server applications communicating with Mattermost.
* [constants](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/constants) - An assortment of constants within Mattermost's data model.
* [selectors](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/selectors) - Selectors return certain data from the Redux store, such as getPost which allows you get a post by id from the Redux store.
* [store](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/store) - Functions related to the Redux store itself.

> * [types](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/types) - Various types of objects in Mattermost's data model. These are useful in plugins written in Typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [types](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/types) - Various types of objects in Mattermost's data model. These are useful for plugins written in Typescript.
```

* [utils](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/utils) - Various utility functions shared across the web application.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes you've already set up your plugin development environment for web app plugins to match [mattermost-plugin-starter-template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template). If not, follow the README instructions of that repository first, or [see the Hello, World! guide](/extend/plugins/webapp/hello-world/).

> ## Basic Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basic example
```

```javascript
import {connect} from 'react-redux';
import {bindActionCreators} from 'redux';

import {getPost} from 'mattermost-redux/selectors/entities/posts';
import {getCurrentTeam} from 'mattermost-redux/selectors/entities/teams';

import {closeCreateModal, createIssue, fetchJiraIssueMetadataForProjects, redirectConnect} from 'actions';
import {isCreateModalVisible, getCreateModal} from 'selectors';

import CreateIssue from './create_issue_modal';

const mapStateToProps = (state) => {
    const {postId, description, channelId} = getCreateModal(state);
    const post = (postId) ? getPost(state, postId) : null;
    const currentTeam = getCurrentTeam(state);

    return {
        visible: isCreateModalVisible(state),
        post,
        description,
        channelId,
        currentTeam,
    };
};

const mapDispatchToProps = (dispatch) => bindActionCreators({
    close: closeCreateModal,
    create: createIssue,
    fetchJiraIssueMetadataForProjects,
    redirectConnect,
}, dispatch);

export default connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(CreateIssue);
```

> ## Some Common Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Some common actions
```

We've listed out some of the commonly-used actions that you can use in your web app plugin. You can find all the actions that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/actions).

> **createChannel**

Author: Yeah, we definitely can link. But, when the Dev is on this page, he should be able to know about the common ones that are listed here, and for something extra, he can always hop into the code base which is linked at the beginning of each section. Apart from that, I have applied the formatting so that they don't use up that much space on the page. Collapsible divs have been added for each of the sections. From a user perspective, keeping the snippet for the common ones here seems more user-friendly and adds more value to the page. I hope you will like this one.

Dispatch this action to create a new channel.

```javascript

> export function createChannel(channel: Channel, userId: string): ActionFunc {

Author: Yeah, the signatures really provide a broader idea but as I had suggested above to have the snippets in collapsible divs instead of just repo links, I hope that covers it as well. Probably, someone completely new to these would still want to have a look at its body as well and it's better if we have it here and still not take up that much space on the page. The user can click on whatever they wanna see or else go to the code base to find the additional actions anyways.

    return async (dispatch: DispatchFunc, getState: GetStateFunc) => {
        let created;
        try {
            created = await Client4.createChannel(channel);
        } catch (error) {
            forceLogoutIfNecessary(error, dispatch, getState);
            dispatch(batchActions([
                {
                    type: ChannelTypes.CREATE_CHANNEL_FAILURE,
                    error,
                },
                logError(error),
            ]));
            return {error};
        }
```

**getCustomEmoji**

> Dispatch this action to fetch a specific emoji associated with the emoji ID provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dispatch this action to fetch a specific emoji associated with the `emojiId` provided.
```

            return {data: true};
        }

        let newPost = {
            ...post,
            pending_post_id: pendingPostId,
            create_at: timestamp,
            update_at: timestamp,
            reply_count: 0,
        };

        if (post.root_id) {
            newPost.reply_count = Selectors.getPostRepliesCount(state, post.root_id) + 1;
        }

        // We are retrying a pending post that had files
        if (newPost.file_ids && !files.length) {
            files = newPost.file_ids.map((id) => state.entities.files.files[id]); // eslint-disable-line
        }

        if (files.length) {
            const fileIds = files.map((file) => file.id);

            newPost = {
                ...newPost,
                file_ids: fileIds,
            };

            actions.push({
                type: FileTypes.RECEIVED_FILES_FOR_POST,
                postId: pendingPostId,
                data: files,
            });
        }

        actions.push({
            type: PostTypes.RECEIVED_NEW_POST,
            data: {
                ...newPost,
                id: pendingPostId,
            },
        });

```

**getMyTeams**

> Dispatch this action to fetch all the team types associated with.

Reviewer: Associated with what/whom?

Author: Associated with the current user. The changes have been made.

```javascript
export function getMyTeams(): ActionFunc {
    return bindClientFunc({
        clientFunc: Client4.getMyTeams,
        onRequest: TeamTypes.MY_TEAMS_REQUEST,
        onSuccess: [TeamTypes.RECEIVED_TEAMS_LIST, TeamTypes.MY_TEAMS_SUCCESS],
        onFailure: TeamTypes.MY_TEAMS_FAILURE,
    });
}
```

**createUser**

Dispatch this action to create a new user profile.

```javascript
export function createUser(user: UserProfile, token: string, inviteId: string, redirect: string): ActionFunc {
    return async (dispatch: DispatchFunc, getState: GetStateFunc) => {
        let created;

        try {
            created = await Client4.createUser(user, token, inviteId, redirect);
        } catch (error) {
            forceLogoutIfNecessary(error, dispatch, getState);
            dispatch(logError(error));
            return {error};
        }

        const profiles: {
            [userId: string]: UserProfile;
        } = {
            [created.id]: created,
        };
        dispatch({type: UserTypes.RECEIVED_PROFILES, data: profiles});

        return {data: created};
    };
}
```

## Some common selectors

> We have listed out some of the commonly-used selectors that you can use in your webapp plugin. You can find all the selectors that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/selectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've listed out some of the commonly-used selectors that you can use in your web app plugin. You can find all the selectors that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/selectors).
```

**getCurrentUserId**

> Retrieves the user ID of the current user from the `Mattermost Server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the `userId` of the current user from the `Mattermost Server`.
```

> Retrieves the `userId` of the current user from the `Mattermost Server`.

Reviewer 2: Selectors retrieve from the Redux store. Client actions return from the Mattermost server.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. Making the changes now.

```javascript
export function getCurrentUserId(state) {
    return state.entities.users.currentUserId;
}
```

**getCurrentUser**

Retrieves the user profile of the current user from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export function getCurrentUser(state: GlobalState): UserProfile {
    return state.entities.users.profiles[getCurrentUserId(state)];
}
```

**getUsers**

Retrieves all user profiles from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export function getUsers(state: GlobalState): IDMappedObjects<UserProfile> {
    return state.entities.users.profiles;
}
```

**getChannel**

Retrieves a channel as it exists in the store without filling in any additional details such as the `display_name` for Direct Messages/Group Messages.

```javascript
export function getChannel(state: GlobalState, id: string) {
    return getAllChannels(state)[id];
}
```

**getCurrentChannelId**

Retrieves the channel ID of the current channel from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export function getCurrentChannelId(state: GlobalState): string {
    return state.entities.channels.currentChannelId;
}
```

**getCurrentChannel**

> Retrives the complete channel info of the current channel from the `Mattermost Server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the complete channel info of the current channel from the `Mattermost Server`.
```

```javascript
export const getCurrentChannel: (state: GlobalState) => Channel = createSelector(
    getAllChannels,
    getCurrentChannelId,
    (state: GlobalState): UsersState => state.entities.users,
    getTeammateNameDisplaySetting,
    (allChannels: IDMappedObjects<Channel>, currentChannelId: string, users: UsersState, teammateNameDisplay: string): Channel => {
        const channel = allChannels[currentChannelId];

        if (channel) {
            return completeDirectChannelInfo(users, teammateNameDisplay, channel);
        }

        return channel;
    },
);
```

**getPost**

Retrieves the specific post associated with the supplied `postID` from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export function getPost(state: GlobalState, postId: $ID<Post>): Post {
    return getAllPosts(state)[postId];
}
```

**getCurrentTeamId**

> Retrieves the Team ID of the current team from the `Mattermost Server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the `teamId` of the current team from the `Mattermost Server`.
```

```javascript
export function getCurrentTeamId(state: GlobalState) {
    return state.entities.teams.currentTeamId;
}
```

**getCurrentTeam**

Retrieves the team info of the current team from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export const getCurrentTeam: (state: GlobalState) => Team = createSelector(
    getTeams,
    getCurrentTeamId,
    (teams, currentTeamId) => {
        return teams[currentTeamId];
    },
);
```

**getCustomEmojisByName**

Retrieves the the specific emoji associated with the supplied `customEmojiName` from the `Mattermost Server`.

```javascript
export const getCustomEmojisByName: (state: GlobalState) => Map<string, CustomEmoji> = createSelector(
    getCustomEmojis,
    (emojis: IDMappedObjects<CustomEmoji>): Map<string, CustomEmoji> => {
        const map: Map<string, CustomEmoji> = new Map();

        Object.keys(emojis).forEach((key: string) => {
            map.set(emojis[key].name, emojis[key]);
        });

        return map;
    },
);
```

## Some common client functions

> We have listed out some of the commonly-used client functions that you can use in your webapp plugin. You can find all the client functions that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/blob/master/src/client/client4.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've listed out some of the commonly-used client functions that you can use in your web app plugin. You can find all the client functions that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/blob/master/src/client/client4.ts).
```

            {method: 'post', body: JSON.stringify({command, ...commandArgs})},
        );
    };
```

**getOptions**

Get the client options to make requests to the server. Use this to create your own custom requests.

```javascript
  getOptions(options: Options) {
        const newOptions: Options = {...options};

        const headers: {[x: string]: string} = {
            [HEADER_REQUESTED_WITH]: 'XMLHttpRequest',
            ...this.defaultHeaders,
        };

        if (this.token) {
            headers[HEADER_AUTH] = `${HEADER_BEARER} ${this.token}`;
        }

        const csrfToken = this.csrf || this.getCSRFFromCookie();
        if (options.method && options.method.toLowerCase() !== 'get' && csrfToken) {
            headers[HEADER_X_CSRF_TOKEN] = csrfToken;
        }

        if (this.includeCookies) {
            newOptions.credentials = 'include';
        }

        if (this.userAgent) {
            headers[HEADER_USER_AGENT] = this.userAgent;
        }

        if (newOptions.headers) {
            Object.assign(headers, newOptions.headers);
        }

        return {
            ...newOptions,
            headers,
        };
    }
```

> ## Common reducers and actions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Custom reducers and actions
```

Reducers in Redux are pure functions that describe how the data in the store changes after any given action. Reducers will always produce the same resulting state for a given state and action. You can register a custom reducer for your plugin against the Redux store with the `registerReducer` function.

> **registerReducer**

Reviewer 3: Can we link to the [docs](https://developers.mattermost.com/extend/plugins/webapp/reference/#registerReducer) for `registerReducer` here?

Author: Link added for this one. Thanks.

> Reducers in Redux are pure functions that describe how the data in the store changes after any given action. Reducers are pure and they will always produce the same resulting state for a given state and action. You can always register a reducer for your plugin against the Redux store with the `registerReducer` function. You can find all the reducers that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/reducers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reducers in Redux are pure functions that describe how the data in the store changes after any given action. Reducers will always produce the same resulting state for a given state and action. You can always register a reducer for your plugin against the Redux store with the `registerReducer` function. You can find all the reducers that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/reducers).
```

> Reducers in Redux are pure functions that describe how the data in the store changes after any given action. Reducers will always produce the same resulting state for a given state and action. You can always register a reducer for your plugin against the Redux store with the `registerReducer` function. You can find all the reducers that are available for your plugin to import [in the source code for mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/reducers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reducers in Redux are pure functions that describe how the data in the store changes after any given action. Reducers will always produce the same resulting state for a given state and action. You can register a custom reducer for your plugin against the Redux store with the `registerReducer` function.
```

Author: We can change that last line but do we not want to mention the code repo as well, as we did in the other sections? @larkox

Reviewer 2: I don't think we want to mention one more time the code. The code is linked in many places, and here is not so much related. The idea of this paragraph is "you can create custom stuff". A link to already created stuff seems not related.

Author: Okay got it. Making the changes as suggested right away, Thanks.

Registers a reducer against the Redux store. It will be accessible in Redux state under `state['plugins-<yourpluginid>']`. It generally accepts a reducer and returns undefined.

```javascript
  registerReducer(reducer)
```

> You can also refer to the [Redux developer guide](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/) to learn more about the [Redux actions](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/actions/), [Redux selectors](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/selectors/), and [Redux reducers](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/reducers/) and gain insights into how these can be used in your Web App plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also refer to the [Redux developer guide](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/) to learn more about the [Redux actions](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/actions/), [Redux selectors](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/selectors/), and [Redux reducers](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/webapp/redux/reducers/) and gain insights into how these can be used in your web app plugins.
```

---
title: Interactions with Redux
heading: "Redux Interactions for Web App Plugins"
description: "Mattermost-redux is a library of shared code between Mattermost JavaScript clients. Learn how to use Redux actions with a plugin."
date: 2018-07-10T00:00:00-05:00
weight: 11
---

When building web app plugins, it is common to perform actions that web and mobile apps already support. The majority of these actions exist in [mattermost-redux](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux), our library of shared code between Mattermost JavaScript clients. The `mattermost-redux` library exports types and functions that are imported by the web application and mobile application. These functions can be imported by plugins, and used the same way. There are a few different kinds of functions exported by the library:

[actions](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/actions) - Actions perform API requests and can change the state of Mattermost.

> [client](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/client) - The client package can be used to instantiate a Client4 object, to interact with the Mattermost API directly. This is useful in plugins as well as javascript server applications communicating with Mattermost.

Reviewer 3: To be consistent with the above paragraph

```suggestion
[client](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/client) - The client package can be used to instantiate a Client4 object, to interact with the Mattermost API directly. This is useful in plugins as well as JavaScript server applications communicating with Mattermost.
```

[constants](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/constants) - An assortment of constants within Mattermost's data model

[selectors](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/selectors) - Selectors return certain data from the Redux store, such as getPost which allows you get a post by id from the Redux store.

[store](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/store) - Functions related to the Redux store itself

> [types](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/types) - Various types of objects in Mattermost's data model. This is useful in plugins as well as javascript server applications communicating with Mattermost.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[types](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-redux/tree/master/src/types) - Various types of objects in Mattermost's data model. These is useful in plugins as well as TypeScript server applications communicating with Mattermost.
```

Author: That will be 'These are' then. Committing that right away, Thanks.
